[piano playing]
♪
[VASH grunts]
[chuckles]
♪
I got what you asked me to.
[CONRAD]
Do you care to fill me in?
[KNIVES]
Hmph.
♪
[alarm blaring]
[CONRAD]
Hmm? What the...?
[blaring continues]
[alarm blaring]
[gasping]
[KNIVES]
What's going on?
[CONRAD]
We've hit the production limit.
[CONRAD] The load put on
the plants--it's too great.
They've been cut off from
the higher dimension.
They can't maintain
their physical forms.
Their condition is terminal.
[RESEARCHER 9A]
This area is off-limits.
What are you doing here?
[CONRAD]
What are we doing?!
Why did you overload them
beyond their threshold?!
They're not disposable!
[RESEARCHER 9A] We're attempting
to accelerate reconstruction.
[RESEARCHER 9B] It's the only
way mankind can hope to survive
on this planet.
[RESEARCHER 9A]
Get out of here.
Their Last Run will start soon.
--[KNIVES] "Last Run?"
--[RESEARCHERS] Hmm?
Let's go.
[KNIVES]
Heal them.
[CONRAD]
Huh?
You heard me, heal them now!
[gasps]
It's... too late.
[sound blaring]
[RESEARCHER 9A]
It's beginning.
The Last Run.
We brought the plants
to their production limit,
then pushed them a hair further.
Their remaining energy will be
used for one final harvest.
[gasps]
[gasps, whimpers]
[grunts]
I'm sorry. Please forgive me.
Please forgive... my kind.
[KNIVES sobbing]
Nai...
[KNIVES gasps]
[VASH]
I knew you were alive.
[KNIVES]
Vash!
You heard them crying out,
didn't you?!
You heard their screams!
[KNIVES] I've tried to tell you!
This is humanity's true nature!
[RESEARCHER 9A chuckles]
These plants were born
to serve us humans.
I'm sure they were
just happy to be useful.
Come on, kid. If you can't
tell, we're busy here.
I have to ask
you outsiders to leave.
--[RESEARCHER 9C] Move it.
--[CONRAD] I beg you!
Don't touch the boy!
Tch! You listened to
their cries of agony!
You watched as
they writhed in pain!
[gasps]
[growls]
You must have...
If so, there's no more
need for words.
I only want to
hear your screams.
[RESEARCHER 9D gasps]
[screams]
[RESEARCHER 9C groans]
[RESEARCHER 9B, 9A
gasp, whimper]
[VASH]
Nai, please stop!
[KNIVES]
"Nai," huh?
Been a while since
I heard that name.
I've become much more.
I represent my myriad of
brethren across the planet,
and shall cut down the humans
that stand in their way.
Meet Millions Knives, Brother.
[panting]
[VASH]
Why...? Why did you kill them?
Rem sacrificed her life
to save all those people!
Oh, please.
If it weren't for Rem's
obnoxious meddling,
every ship besides the plant
carriers would've turned to ash.
I swapped out
the navigation data.
Do you understand how long that
takes for every single ship?
[gasps]
[RESEARCHERS panting]
[RESEARCHER 9A]
Hurry up. Get the kids!
[RESEARCHER 9F]
Stay right there!
[KNIVES]
Vash.
Join me and we shall
build a paradise.
Forget humanity.
Let's free our brethren
from the foul humans.
You can't. Rem told us plants
can't survive without humans!
You remember, don't you?
When plants don't have
people to take care of them,
they use up all their energy
in one burst and die.
[KNIVES chuckles]
Can't say I'm shocked
you bought into that lie.
No matter how comfortable they
might be, chains are chains.
That's why they need us.
We are free willed.
We are revolution!
My brother, we are power!
[RESEARCHERS gasping]
[RESEARCHER 9H screams]
[RESEARCHER 9I groans]
[RESEARCHER 9B shrieks]
[RESEARCHER 9A whimpers]
Please, we had no choi--
[KNIVES grunts]
[gasps]
[KNIVES]
Hmph.
[chuckles]
With the twitch of a finger,
the Sinners can take
a life from afar.
In their weaponry, their
cowardice is tangible.
Should serve as a fitting arm
for a human-lover like you.
[VASH grunts]
Our kind will face destruction
or find deliverance.
I'm ready to be the savior
that they need.
All we must do now is begin.
[gasps]
What are you planning...?
[chuckles]
[LUIDA]
Vash!
Huh?
[CONRAD]
Luida?
[VASH]
What're you doing here?
I came to get you.
I'm taking you home.
--[gasps]
--[sighs]
Excellent.
Show me what you can do.
Let her be your first
casualty in our crusade.
[gasps]
[LUIDA]
We all miss you.
Come home!
What's wrong? Do it already.
[VASH whimpers]
[sighs]
[growls]
Tch.
All this time, and you're still
just as useless without me.
[gasps]
[VASH]
Nai!
[KNIVES]
Huh?
[snarls]
I was useless!
Until the second she died,
I let Rem protect me!
But I never protected her!
And now she's gone!
I wont let that happen again!
You don't get to take
anyone else away from me!
[snarls]
Vash!
[yelps]
[KNIVES growls]
How predictable!
Shoulda known.
[gasps]
[KNIVES] Must you rip my brother
from me time and again,
you witch?
[LUIDA rasping]
Stop... Please...
[grunts]
Stop, Nai!
Huh? What's the boy doing?!
--[LUIDA groaning]
--[KNIVES gasps]
Is this me...?
But how...?
[VASH grunting]
[KNIVES growls]
You fool!
[CONRAD]
What is this?! A gate?!
[grunts]
[VASH whimpering]
[KNIVES grunts]
[bellows]
[gasps]
I'm here!
Stay away from him!
[LUIDA]
Ah!
[KNIVES groans]
Don't lay a hand on my brother!
[VASH growls softly]
[sobs]
[chuckles]
Just be patient.
For in century or so,
I will have built
an entire world of plants.
--[sighs]
--[gasps]
Oh no! Stay with me!
Please, Vash!
[VASH sighs]
There he is.
Heard you busted your arm again?
[VASH]
Brad...
[BRAD] Ugh.
Every time I see your mug,
you've slaughtered
my masterpiece.
[VASH chuckles]
I, uh... You got me.
[BRAD]
Come on, show me the damage.
Right.
[sighs] You're the same
as always, huh?
Look who's talking!
I'm just old.
Us humans don't get
the "fountain-of-youth."
--[groans]
--Boo-hoo. Big baby.
Huh?
Heh. Welcome home, Vash.
Home, right.
The others?
They're all safe.
Everyone from the Humpback
and the orphanage,
and your friends, too.
[VASH]
That's good to hear.
You're okay!
Well, I'm not.
Don't associate me with him.
I'm impressed.
We actually stopped
the ship, all thanks to you.
[WOLFWOOD]
Enough flattery.
Can we talk about the spaceship
hiding in the sandstorm?
[ROBERTO]
Damn smart camouflage.
[MERYL]
Thank you for saving us.
You all seem close.
Have you two known Vash
for a long time now?
[BRAD] For a little while--
'bout a 150 years.
Huh?!
You don't look that old!
We have cold sleep to thank.
When we're under, we don't
age a minute. Can't ya tell?
[LUIDA] As long as we're around,
we can continue to maintain
the ship and its passengers.
Speaking of passengers,
you'll see that many of them
are still asleep.
[WOLFWOOD] Got it.
So it's not eternal life.
Not at all.
We're only human.
We just have a little help
from technology.
[MERYL sighs]
The plants... They're helping
you out too, right?
[ROBERTO groans]
Ah.
Hmm.
There's something
that you should see.
Ah?
[BOTH gasp]
[MERYL]
Whoa-ho-ho-ho!
[giggles]
No way! This place
is incredible!
[laughs]
Oh! Everything's so
beautiful and green!
[giggles]
I can't say I was
expecting this.
Come here!
You've gotta check this out!
[grunts]
[ROBERTO]
Newb down.
[MERYL]
That's gonna bruise...
Ah? What are these?
In my field, we call them flora.
What's that mean?
They use photosynthesis
to grow and multiply.
They're a special sort
of life-form that's neither
human nor Worm.
These things are living?
[LUIDA] Yes, but they don't
eat like we do.
They use water and sunlight
to create nutrients.
So if we make some more...?
[LUIDA]
Mm-hmm.
[ROBERTO]
Can't be that simple.
Like all things, your fancy dome
is powered by plants, huh?
I know we're not
talking one or two.
You see, the flora we're
growing will ultimately
lessen their load.
If you give us enough time,
I promise we'll have this planet
covered in greenery.
About how long will that take?
Years? Maybe a millennium
if we're lucky?
"How long" is irrelevant.
All that matters is that
I'm following the right path.
I don't feel comfortable
justifying wrongdoing
for my own survival.
[ROBERTO] Hah! Now I see
where Vash got it from.
"The right path"? Jeez.
Dog-eat-dog, lady.
There's no room for your
shiny morality on this planet.
Be frank, I'm sick
of hearing it.
That said, you're free
to take your path,
and I'm free to take mine.
All that I can hope now
is that we're headed
for the same destination.
[LUIDA] There's something
I need to tell you.
What now?
[LUIDA]
There's no smoking on the ship.
[ROBERTO coughs]
[sighs] One cool monologue,
and he blows it immediately.
[ROBERTO]
C'mon, Meryl!
Go find somewhere I can smoke!
Yeah, yeah.
Cause that's in my job de--
Huh?
[squeals]
Hold on! Did you
just refer to me as "Meryl"
and not "newbie" for the very
first time since we met?!
[ROBERTO]
Huh? I don't know, did I?
You so did!
I'm not buying it.
[MERYL] Aw! What do you mean
you're not buying it?!
--You said it!
--[ROBERTO] I did not.
--[MERYL] Ooh, seriously?!
--[ROBERTO] Did not.
--Did too! Did too! Did too!
--Did not. Did not. Did not.
[WOLFWOOD]
Needle-Noggin...
Riddle me this
for a moment, will ya?
[VASH]
Huh?
When you get to Knives, you
aren't stupid enough to think
you two can just talk
this thing out, are you?
Jeez, Blondie!
--[VASH] I won't kill him.
--Huh?!
[VASH]
I'll never kill. Never again.
I'll figure out a way
to save everyone.
The humans,
the plants, Nai, too.
[WOLFWOOD scoffs]
An empty promise is just a lie.
The day's gonna come
when you have to pick a side.
I hope you pick right.
[BRAD]
I used to be like you.
Huh?
Thinking it's black and white.
Thinking that Vash is as
full of crap as any one of us.
Ask him yourself--
you sound just like me.
All right, grandpa. Sure.
[BRAD]
Vash is a tough kid.
Hang around him long enough,
and you'll see.
--[gasps]
--[panting]
--[VASH] What's wrong?!
--The Worms were here.
Worms, huh?
Up there.
[WOLFWOOD]
That's Zazie. No doubt about it.
[groaning]
[MERYL groans]
What the heck? Where are we?
Wake up! You gotta
be okay! Wake up!
[ROBERTO groaning]
Oh...
Rough night...
Not hurt, are you?
Oh. Hey, Newbie. You good?
[groans]
[ROBERTO]
So. Where the hell are we?
[MERYL]
No clue.
Think that they'll
let me smoke here?
--[laughs]
--Priorities, huh?
[ZAZIE] Welcome to the third
of the seven cities.
[ZAZIE]
JuLai.
Nestled within
a crashed plant carrier.
[MERYL]
Hold on. Have we met?
[ZAZIE] Oh, yeah. I guess you've
never seen me in this outfit.
So, did Knives send you here?
Huh?
[ZAZIE] We have more
interesting things to discuss.
The planet you call Noman's
Land stands at a crossroads.
So I'm trying to find out...
...from your point of view,
who should we Worms side with?
You humans?
Or the plants?
[grunts]
[gasps]
--[ZAZIE] Nice try...
--Huh?
...but this body thing is more
for you than it is for me.
[ROBERTO]
You some big shot?
Think you get to choose
who wins this war?
[ZAZIE] If the planet's
anyone's, it's ours.
We were here
way before you guys.
And you are repeat offenders.
[MERYL]
Are we?
[WOLFWOOD groaning]
[growls]
[ZAZIE] Your home planet
is Earth, right?
I hear you humans all but
burned it to the ground.
That's why you sent colony ships
to this new planet.
No way... It can't be.
[ZAZIE]
Oh, but it can.
Earth used to be a lush planet.
It had beauty and
bountiful resources.
It was teeming with life,
and not just human.
But too bad.
[ZAZIE] Mankind got a little
too greedy, and-- poof.
[MERYL]
You're lying. That's impossible.
[ZAZIE] Colony ships don't
just fall out of the sky.
The twins crashed them
to stop you.
Slow down, who?
That's insanity.
You're saying it was
Vash and his brother?
And they've just been hanging
out for a century and half?
Real likely.
[ZAZIE laughs]
They're not like you! Centuries
are mere seconds to plants.
[MERYL gasps]
These are...
[ZAZIE] Knives has got
quite the collection, huh?
Yeah, but why?
[CONRAD]
What are you doing?!
--[gasps]
--[ZAZIE] Huh?
Uh-oh. Daddy's home.
The Beast, of course.
Why did you bring them here?
[ZAZIE]
I don't take orders from you.
I'm a guest of Knives.
I can do whatever I please.
[MERYL growls]
I have to know!
What good are
the red plants to you?
That's highly confidential.
[ZAZIE chuckles]
Oh, I can tell you that,
but you have to
tell me something.
Ah?
[ZAZIE] Are humans going
to do more for my planet?
Or are plants?
Well? Who should I let live?